Johnny Carson, host of NBC's "The Tonight Show" for nearly 30
years, died Sunday of emphysema."He passed away this morning,"
Carson's nephew, Jeffrey Sotzing, told CNN.Carson, a longtime smoker, was
79 and had announced in 2002 that he was suffering from the disease.Carson
was host of the late-night talk show from October 1, 1962, to May 22, 1992,
    taking over from Jack Paar and handing off to Jay Leno after 4,531
    episodes."It is a sad day for his family and for the
    country,"  "Late Show" host David Letterman said in a
    statement Sunday. "He was the best -- a star and a
    gentleman."Carson kept a low profile after leaving "The
    Tonight Show" in 1992."He has been greatly missed since his
    retirement" Letterman said. "Thank God for videotapes and
    DVDs. In this regard, he will always be around."Born John William
    Carson on October 23, 1925, in Corning, Iowa, he is survived by his
    fourth wife, Alexis, and sons Christopher and Cory from his first
    marriage, to Joan "Jody" Wolcott. Another son, Richard, died
    in a car accident in 1991.Despite decades on television, Carson was
    never open publicly with the details of his personal life."Nobody
    got to know him," said comedian Joan Rivers, who often substituted
    for Carson as a "Tonight Show" guest host. "He was very
    private."Teenage magicianCarson began his show business career as
    a teenage magician and ventriloquist before serving in the Navy during
    World War II.After the Navy, he attended the University of Nebraska,
    graduating in 1949 with a bachelor of arts degree.While still in
    college, Carson took a job as an announcer with KFAB in Lincoln,
    Nebraska, and two years later moved to Los Angeles, California, where
    he took an announcer's job at KNXT-TV.A year later, the boyish-looking
    budding comedian had his own show -- "Carson's Cellar" -- 15
    minutes of poking fun at the news, on which Carson persuaded stars of
    the 1940s and 1950s to appear for free.In the midst of the show's run,
    famed clown Red Skelton hired Carson as a writer -- and even put him on
    as host on live television when Skelton was injured during a
    rehearsal."The Johnny Carson Show" spent 39 weeks on CBS in
    1955 and 1956, then he moved to New York, where he was host of ABC's
    quiz show "Who Do You Trust?" and met Ed McMahon, who became
    Carson's sidekick until Carson retired from "The Tonight
    Show" 35 years later.Under Carson, "The Tonight Show"
    earned 42 Emmy nominations and won seven trophies. Carson picked up a
    Golden Globe nomination in 1975, three years after moving the show from
    New York to Hollywood.Carson was inducted into the Television Hall of
    Fame in 1987. An estimated 50 million people watched his final
    broadcast in 1992."And so it has come to this. I am one of the
    lucky people in the world. I found something that I always wanted to do
    and I have enjoyed every single minute of it," Carson said to
    close his final show. "I bid you a very heartfelt
    goodnight."President George H.W. Bush awarded Carson the Medal of
    Freedom on December 11, 1992, and the following year he was awarded the
    Kennedy Center Honors Lifetime Achievement Award.Carson's departure led
    to a bitter battle to replace him, between Letterman, whose "Late
    Night with David Letterman" followed "The Tonight Show"
    on NBC's schedule, and frequent guest host Jay Leno. Leno won and
    remains the host; Letterman jumped to CBS, where he is host of
    "The Late Show." Who's Who of top comediansCarson is credited
    with boosting the careers of numerous young comedians."The Carson
    show changed your life," Rivers said. "If Carson liked you,
    you were set. He got the bright comics. He picked the ones who were
    different, who were smart."The list of other Carson alumni reads
    like a Who's Who of top comics -- Bill Cosby, David Brenner, Jerry
    Seinfeld, George Carlin and Garry Shandling."He gave me a shot on
    his show and in doing so gave me a career," Letterman said.
    "A night doesn't go by that I don't ask myself, 'What would Johnny
    have done?'" "All of us who came after are pretenders,"
    Letterman said. "We will not see the likes of him
    again."Rivers said she, too, owes her start -- and her later
    introduction to the man who became her husband -- to Carson."We
    all started on his show," Rivers said. "Every solid comedian
    today really got their break on the Carson show."Carson had a
    special knack for putting people at ease, comedian Jackie Mason
    said."The nervousness never lasted more than a second because he
    was so congenial and comfortable," Mason said. "He made more
    stars on his show, probably, than anybody in the whole history of show
    business."A guest's ability to make the host laugh was the sign of
    a successful appearance, said Dr. Joyce Brothers, who appeared on
    Carson's show about 90 times."If you made Johnny Carson laugh, the
    sun shone. It was such a triumph for you, and he was always, always
    kind," Brothers said. "[He] never said a cutting remark in
    all of the years that I watched the show, and I watched it for years
    and years, because it was fun to go to bed feeling happy and
    pleased.""He was kindness personified," Brothers
    said.Rivers called Carson "the best straight man in the
    business.""Nobody in the world was like him," she said.
    "He was absolutely the best I've ever worked with."But Rivers
    said Carson never spoke to her again after she left to start her own
    late-night show -- one of many challenges he fended off during his time
    on "The Tonight Show."And Carson worked hard to maintain his
    privacy, Brothers said."He had his own entrance onto the
    stage," she said. "He had his own makeup room."You never
    spoke to him at all before the show. He didn't want the guests to say
    something funny, and then feel that they were too embarrassed to say it
    on air."Peter Lassally, Carson's executive producer for 23 years,
    took credit for Carson's continuing to write jokes for Letterman until
    recently."It gave him great pleasure," Lassally told CNN.
    "He'd pick up the paper in the morning and could think of a dozen
    jokes and had no outlet for them, so I urged him to share them with
    America."Story Tools 
